the family are unaware it's closing
samu is in grave danger
oh this shark looks like a tiger looks
huge
yeah it was big
the shark the shark
one of puck's daughters rushes in to
help protect salmon
without the family samu could easily be
eaten
what happened next will never be known
but it's likely the rest of the beaches
mobbed or even rammed the shark with
their beaks
chasing it away they're up in front
take away
this is another one it's a hammerhead
with the family now on full alert it's
not getting anywhere near samu
but seeing two sharks so soon after the
birth doesn't bode well
round here only half of the calf survive
beyond their third year
most are lost in the first few weeks of
life
but nothing goes to waste the death of a
hippo provides a meal for the river's
most fearsome
and efficient predators the nile
crocodile
growing up to five meters in length
these crocodiles hunt
and scavenge that's a lot of crocs
a hippocarcas just down the river from
the studio
is instantly set upon by these voracious
reptiles
this is about 100 meters in front of us
a classic
luango sea dead hippo in the water and
about 30 crocodiles
what's amazing is that there are two or
three hippos that are coming in and
actually trying to force the crocodiles
off the car because obviously mum will
be one of them
there seems to be a whole gang that are
trying to force the crops off while they
tear this thing into pieces so it's
pretty primeval
hippos and crocodiles normally coexist
peacefully
but crocs will take every opportunity to
prey on a weak animal
or scavenge a dead one we've seen one or
two of these hippos
doing these big yawning displays which
is really a threat to the crocodiles
they're trying to drive the crocodiles
off with this big yawn and
you know sharp teeth and everything but
the crocs obviously are not intimidated
by that at all
and the crops are here in numbers so
that you know the hippos have got no
chance really of driving them
alison leslie is one of the foremost
authorities on nile crocodiles
she explains to one of the film crew the
unique manner in which the crocs feed
if it's a bony chunk they will literally
just crush 2
000 pounds per square inch they will
just crush everything until it's
in a sort of a soft enough condition
that they can just swallow
and if it's a chunk of say for example
skin or
innards they just fill their mouth and
shake and shake and shake until this
food
literally slides down their throat
there's some sort of hierarchy there
they rely on each other to actually grab
onto either end of a piece of prey and
then they rotate in opposite directions
so
although to us it looks like this mad
frenzy and splashing and going on
there's actually a really
controlled sort of system in place there
amazingly so
everybody's concentrated in the areas
the hippos are dying off you know
slowly but surely and these cleaning
machines have come in just to
you know keep the system freshened up
crocodiles are opportunists they feed on
fish in the river
and at this time of year will make the
most of any dying or dead hippos
but they will also take advantage of any
animal coming to the river to drink
with that sort of number of crocs in an
area obviously if there's an impile on
the bank there's going to be a number of
crocs going for that animal
if we don't get rain i think there's
going to be a bit of an uproar in some
of these areas
so for the thirsty animals this croc
infested river
is as dangerous as it is necessary
with higher water the mother bear has
moved to the falls
where the salmon are most active but the
big male
has taken over the best fishing spot
she needs to keep herself safe but she
also needs access to salmon
she cautiously moves closer to the big
male
she's probably still a little unsure of
him after their last encounter
there's lots of salmon swimming through
the falls now but with the big male so
close by
she can't really move around as freely
as she needs to
[Music]
[Applause]
the big male has control of the best
fishing site
but due to the closeness of the mother
bear he also seems to be losing some of
his focus
[Music]
then he manages to grab another salmon
however this one is a male and he lets
it go
the mother bear is less fussy right now
but she's unable to take advantage of
the opportunity
neither bear is very happy with the
presence of the other
the mother bear decides to move in and
take advantage of the scraps
the big guys left behind
the big male seems annoyed by her
presence so close behind him
something has to give at this rate
neither bear is going to be successful
the mother is getting more confident
growling at the big male letting him
know
she wants him out of there
finally she builds up the nerve to storm
his position
[Music]
even though she's much smaller than him
she's not backing down
she wants access to the salmon more than
he does
big male tries to intimidate her with
his much larger size
but she holds her nerve refusing to
leave
finally the big males had enough and
moves on to other fishing grounds
now the mother bear has the falls all to
herself
this has been a hard one salmon but i
think there's going to be lots more
where this came from now
just as they've done before diablo and
the family have to deal with this threat
all the adults start to harass the
cayman
as the cubs keep their distance sophia
takes her position at the front sizing
up the cayman
others move in to try to distract it
diablo once again moves in from behind
and goes for the tail
but the cayman refuses to back down
and then begins to fight back
[Music]
the cubs panic and follow the adults
right into the middle of the fight
they're in extreme danger now so the
adult otters
step up the assault
the cayman tries to head for the safety
of the bushes
but it's too late he's outnumbered
the otters seize the moment
incredibly they overpower the cayman
some holding it down
others biting it in the head
after nearly an hour of brutal fighting
it's all over
the cayman may be dead but charlie needs
to know if all the otters are okay
it doesn't take long to realize two of
the cubs haven't survived the fight
[Applause]
stuck in the middle of the action like
this the young
inexperienced cubs were no match for
such a powerful and aggressive predator
[Music]
the truce between otters and cayman has
for a brief moment been broken
[Music]
what impresses charlie the most though
is the incredible show of family bonds
and physical strength the otters brought
together
to kill the cayman and eliminate the
threat of it from their lake
producing young is just one challenge
finding food and somewhere to live are
further trials
fish must face
the californian coast a wide range of
species live here
but all this life means competition for
living space
is intense
old shells are highly prized
[Music]
and this one is occupied by a sarcastic
fringehead these fish
are exceptionally quarrelsome they have
to be
to defend their living space
[Music]
an octopus
inadvertently it's wandered into the
fringehead's territory
and that can't be tolerated
[Applause]
the octopus's impressive jab holds the
french head at bay
[Music]
there is more to this behavior than
being bad tempered
the fringehead needs to defend its patch
if it is to get enough to eat and the
octopus was competition
crabs are not the easiest of mouthfuls
because of the shortage of living space
there are constant boundary disputes
especially with other fringe heads
and this one has got too close
[Music]
despite the most extravagant threats
neither is prepared to back down
[Music]
success and it's quick to get back to
its shell
a fringehead can never drop its guard
there's too much competition
[Music]
foreign